	Throughout time one of the few things that hasn't changed much is our innate desire to belong. Tribalism is deeply ingrained in our cultural DNA. Today our tribes are largely seperated by race, relgion and nationality. They give us a sense of idenity and security. Unfortunately in our rush to the top of the food chain the "us vs them" mentality that once helped our ancestors survive has become a catalyst for society's woes. 

	The two precepts of tribalism are simple: support and defend. These ideals are not without their merit, but don't be fooled, they are often found at the flashpoint of conflict. According to David Logan, tribes develop in 5 stages. He describes the first and most dangerous stages as "a group where people systematically sever relationships from functional tribes, and then pool together with people who think like they do" (David Logan on Tribal Leadership). Stage one tribalism is destroys the society it forms in. Tribes bound by religion and culture tear cause turbulence throughout Europe, the middle-east and even brougth about the fall of the likes of the Soviety Union and Roman Empire (Chua 336). According to Amartya Sen, "Political leaders who think and act in terms of sectioning off humanity into various 'worlds' stand to make hte world more flammable - even when their intentions are very different" (Sen 318), the intentions so often being our desire to fufill our tribal objective to support and defend our tribe and fellow tribemen. 

	Tribalism isn't limited to causing conflict on a large scale, at it's most basic it level is strictly affects the people we interact with everyday. We  treat with favor the people we consider to be one of our own tribe. Amy Chua explains that tribalism hurts the community when employers only hire people of their own race and we prefer to allowing immigration of extended families to skilled workers (Chua 338). Much like the people of Rome we find ourselves looking out for our tribe rather than society as a whole. 